>> Jem Young: To finish off the HP
section, we spent a while on it.
That's pretty rewarding.
We now have a modern site running on
SSL and HP/2 and you're thinking,
that's great, but
HTTP/3 is coming out soon, too.
I feel like I just figured out HTTP/2.
It's okay.
Here's HTTP/3.
HTTP/3 is out.
But I say out.
The internet's pretty slow in
terms of rolling things out.
For instance, only about 42% of
the internet uses HTTP/2 now,
even though it's been out for years now.
It's a very slow progress.
I blame banks and corporations,
they're, yeah we'll get to it.
But when you're running a large server
with thousands of users, adding HTTP/2,
adding SSL is not as easy as we made
it here, and it does cost money.
You're gonna increase your server time and
things like that.
But just in time for people not to
adopt HTTP/2, HTTP/3 comes out.
The difference between HTTP/2 and
HTTP/3 is HTTP/2 in all previous
generations of HTTP bonus.
How many times did I say HTTP today?
So many.
But all the previous generations,
they all run over TCP.
Remember that it is still that handshake
protocol, while HTTP/2 made it faster
because we multiplex that so we are not
doing a handshake every single time.
There is still a cost to doing that.
And they are still doing
that compression or
they are still doing
that error correction.
So if we think back to our
earlier lesson about TCP.
TCP error corrects, so if any packets are
missing, it says, hey, one, two ,three,
four, five, but six and seven are missing.
And you send that request to
the server and the server's, my bad.
Let me send those again.
And that's what makes TCP reliable and
it was something that was necessary,
especially back in the early days of
the internet when connections would drop.
Especially when we're using dial up,
which is very prone to lossy connection.
I don't know if any of you ever
use dial up, dating myself again.
But I don't know if you know the pain
of downloading an mp3 you're, yeah,
it's the new, I don't know who's popular..
Blink 182 that was probably that's
about the right time, right?
I spent an hour downloading Blink
182 one song over my 56k modem.
And then someone picks up the phone
like hello, and you lose it all.
And yes, the old days of the internet
connections were unreliable, so
we needed something with
a lot of error correction.
Now, the internet's much more reliable,
it's much more of a staple,
kind of like a power line, or
your water line or something like that.
So, what Google did,
was they invented a new protocol called,
Quick UDP Connections.
So instead of HTTP over TCP,
we now have HTTP over UDP.
And from our earlier lessons,
remember that UDP is more of a blast,
where CCP is, hey did you get it?
He's like yeah I got it.
UDP is I'm gonna send you data and
assuming you got it.
And it has some error correction built in,
but because the internet's more reliable,
it's much faster cuz we don't
have to do that handshake of sin
in acts in acknowledge and
all these other things UDP just blasts.
If you wanna check if
anything supporting UDP
using quicker HTTP/3,
we can actually pull up a Gmail.
I won't pull my Gmail cuz that's my mail.
But if you open your Gmail or
something Google own property,
you'll see in the protocol
it now says HTTP/quick 46.
That's because HTTP/3
is not quite official.
It's not like well supported
by all the browsers.
But we, we can't implement this yet
because it's not really
being supported too much.
I don't even think NGINX supports
it far as I know, Sam, do you know?
>> Sam: No, not off the top of my head.
I know that Lighthouse
definitely supports it.
>> Jem Young: Really?
That makes sense.
That's a Google owned product as well.
Google and Cloudflare now support HTTP/3.
We'll see gradual adoption, but
this is again something you'll
see in the next five years or so.
And it does create a baby 13,
it depends on the connection,
but say like 13 to 20% speed
increase over HTTP/2 which
is pretty impressive because you think
that speed increase over HTTP/1, we're
talking up to 50% faster just from just
configuring the way we're sending data.
That's pretty awesome.
I don't know about you,
but that's pretty cool.
Maybe in version three of full-stack or
front-end will be able
to implement HTTP/3.